## Designing and Pricing Mixed-Indexed Derivatives Using Stochastic Temperature and Rainfall Models
Uncertainty has long been a difficulty in the agricultural industry which contributes to risks in production and yield, leading to reduced profits and unstable consumer prices. In the context of accelerating climate change, changes in temperature become more volatile while anomalies in rainfall are also more frequent. Thus, roviding a tool to hedge against these climate risks is increasingly necessary to maintain the profitability and stability of the agricultural sector in England. <br><br>While insurance schemes for farmers do already exist and are popular among businesses in agriculture, the payouts in the traditional mechanisms are dependent on a demonstrated loss, usually due to high risk but infrequent events like extreme drought or other natural disasters. On the other hand, weather derivatives provide a payout irrespective of whether a loss is incurred. Based on an index (or multiple indices) – like millimetres of rainfall, weather derivatives cover for low-risk, high-probability events (like high rainfall) too. In addition, weather derivatives allow for faster processing of payout as no assessment of loss is required, and more transparency as payout is determined by a quantitative index. Weather derivatives are becoming an increasingly preferred management strategy used by businesses to hedge against weather risks.<br><br>The objective of this project is to use stochastic temperature and rainfall models in England to design economically accessible weather derivatives for agricultural producers in this country with fair premium prices, that is effective in reducing price volatility due to a varying climate.
